So, in order to build a social networking website of really good quality, 
one must consider the following features: 

    Registration. The main requirements are simplicity (exclude unnecessary steps), 
    reliability (make sure user data is protected), 
    and multi-variance (offer several options to register).

    Profile. Creating a user account is the next logical step after registration. 
    The profile includes information about the user and also offers access to his photo albums,
     personal information, and more.

    Posts. Of course, the main emphasis is on the ability to publish posts. 
    That is, the user should be able to share news, interesting information, 
    and other things with his friends.

    Full-featured Search for groups, brands, people.
     Any social network website should help people in finding each other. 

    Friendship. A user must be able to send a friend request or 
    just follow the account he likes in order to see its news in his news feed.

    News Feed. The news feed we've already mentioned allows the user to see
     what is happening in the lives of his friends and people he is following.

    The Wall. Now it's about the news of the user himself. On the wall,
     he can place links to favorite articles, write posts, create photo and video galleries. 

    Chat. If you intend to create a social media website, don't forget 
    the instant messaging system: users should have a chance 
    to chat both in a private mode and in groups.


    File Transfer. Sometimes when communicating a user needs to share a 
    file with his conversational partner. 
    Social network features have to include the ability to transfer files as simple as possible, 
    just in the process of online conversation.

    Deferred Reading. Facebook provides a user with the possibility to save 
    articles and posts “for later,” so that he can find the material he liked without any trouble.

    Notifications, another essential feature of almost any application.

    User Status. Some users don’t mind clarifying their status in order to 
    notify others about certain changes in their lives. 
    This may relate to personal life (married, divorced, in love, etc.), 
    work (let's say, you've started to work in a new place), and similar things.

    Analytics. Such a feature is extremely necessary for both users and you, 
    as the owner of the resource. 
    Users will especially need analytical tools if they want to
     promote their products or services through your site.

    Admin Access. The feature is aimed at 
    those who will manage the site, block unreliable users, 
    and perform other administrative functions